For this last exercise of chapter six,
we're going
to demonstrate, again, how to use the if
elif.
This time we're going to write a little
program
that suggests activities at a resort based
on the
temperature, so that if you're sitting in
your room
with a computer, you could type in the
temperature.
And then the program would give you some
suggestions of things to do.
So let's get started on that.
We're going to call it activity.py.
First thing I'm going to do is write a
stock message that
will fill in, based on what the user
enters for the temperature.
So we'll prompt the user to enter the
temperature now.
And then we'll get that using the int
conversion function and raw input.
And now we begin the if elif.
So, we say, if temp is greater than
85, message is equal to message plus,
swimming.
Elif the temp is greater than or equal to
70,.
Then we suggests that tennis is the right
activity.
Elif the temp is greater than or equal to
32.
The recommended activity is golf all
though 32 may be
a little bit cold for golf we'll leave it
there.
Elif the temp.
Is greater than or equal to zero, then the
recommended activity is dancing.
And otherwise, else, the recommended
activity will be sitting by the fire, and
then we'll just simply print the message.
And we're finished.
Scanning the code I see a left alpha colon
right here so
let's add that in, and the left one off
right here also.
Now I believe we're ready.
So exit and save.
And then run the program.
So let's say the temperature is 56.
The recommended activity is golf.
Let's run it again, let's say it's 99,
then the recommended activity is swimming.
Let's say it's 72, then we have tennis.
Let's say it's 23, then dancing.
And then we're in the far northern climbs,
and the temperatures negative 10.
The recommend activity is sitting by the
fire.
So there's another example of how to use
the if elif to make decisions based on
a series of related possibilities based on
the input data that the program receives.
And with this we're ready to end this
chapter on decision making and
we're ready to move on to the next chapter
where we're going to talk
about writing loops, in this case we're
going to talk about the Wyle loop,
which is the first of the types of loops
we're going to talk about.